So what does capacitor or Cordova.
I really want to mentioned this in this course we use capacitor because that is a tool developed and
maintained by the ionic team and therefore we can pretty much rely on this being up to date and only
growing in popularity and feature richness over time.
Cordova nonetheless is an alternative to capacitor and historically ionic did use Cordova.
You could still use Cordova with a sonic four and the official docks of course are the way to go if
you want to.
But here we'll focus on capacitor.
But nonetheless what are these two tools.
Well remember that we're building an app here with ionic and angular.
And what we're building is a web app that is why we're previewing it in the browser all the time though
of course I did show you how you can run it on the real device too.
But if you do run it on a real device you absolutely have to remember that your web app is basically
wrapped in a native app and that native app renders a web view with your app in it.
And this native web the order's app and the web view in it is basically what's provided by capacitor
or Cordova.
So these tools basically give you a native app shell take your web app wrap it into that and then build
a real native app out of this shell plus web app thing.
Now in this course as I mentioned we'll use capacitor and not Cordova but they both have to a philosophy
or idea but of course just wrapping a web app on its own.
Isn't that helpful because when you're building a mobile app you obviously have a bunch of native platform
API is so basically API as you could normally use when you're building an ISIS or an Android app with
the native languages for these platforms.
So with objective c or swift for ISIS or with Java for Android.
D native platform API I'm talking about are things like using the camera or using mobile payment or
anything like that.
Now of course we want to utilize these API is from our ionic app as well.
But keep in mind it is just a web app wrapped into a native app and therefore a capacitor and Cordova
all to provide a bridge to these native platform API as they give us javascript methods we can call
which under the hood will basically translate to native API calls that allow us to tap into that camera
and so on and capacitor does all of that by giving us a rich set of built in API we can tap into you
and we can also add plug ins as a community and therefore we'll see more and more features being provided
over time and it gives us access to all these APIs through one single javascript API we use from our
Web app and from that single API where we call the same effort no matter where our app runs.
If that is in the web we're on IAW or on Android we can reach out to the IRS Android and possibly web
API that are provided and that is all important.
Even if your app runs really just on the web so not wrapped into it is native app on ISIS or Android
but in a browser on your Mac book or your PC it even then modern browsers give you a lot of nice features
like access to the camera or auto location with geo location package and capacitor basically gives you
access to all these features no matter on which platform you are and if something should go wrong so
if you are trying to use a certain feature that is not supported on the platform your app runs it will
fail gracefully.
So that means you basically get a chance to recover to provide an alternative to provide a fallback
and that is also what we'll do in this course.
And one other important note if you already have an existing app and you want to rebuild it with a Onegin
capacitor and in that existing app you will use the bunch of cord of a plugins.
These are still supported by capacitor and the official box of capacitor are the place where you can
learn more about that.